we're going to get into a new type of
game which is the top-down action
adventure puzzle game like Zelda but
those can be kind of complicated so
we're going to learn some of the basic
concepts through a few other games first
and ease ourselves into it the first one
we're going to make is Sokoban which if
you're unfamiliar is a puzzle game where
you push boxes around and try and get
them into their proper places so over
here in the assets I have created a
sprite player which is 32 by 32 and the
origin point is at 0 0 it has 4
different sub images in it with as
little bulldozer pointing down up left
and right and this order is going to be
important because we need to keep track
of the sub images and then I've also
created a sprite wall which is just the
32 by 32 block of some color we're not
going to see this wall so it doesn't
really matter but the origin point is at
0 0 I've also created objects from them
an object player which is visible and
solid and the object wall which for
right now is going to be visible will
turn this off later but it's also solid
and then I've just created a room called
room level 1 so let's start by adding
the movement actions to the player so
open object player and the first thing
we need to do is establish its initial
sprite we have 4 sub images in our
sprite player so it's just going to
cycle through them unless we tell it to
stop so let's add an event create come
over to main one and change sprite we
will set the sprite to sprite player sub
image 0 speed of 0 so the default
setting will be in the down position and
before we start adding the movement
actions we need to consider how the game
will work Sokoban is basically a maze
game where you have to precisely
navigate your way through various
passages so that means we're going to
have to line our player up precisely
because we
want the player to have to struggle with
moving themselves pixel-perfect that'll
just create frustration and no one will
want to play the game fortunately it's
very simple we'll just have object snap
itself to the grid in the room so let's
add an event keyboard and we'll start
with the down key the first action we
need to set is another change sprite
change it into the sprite player sub
image 0 speed of 0 so to get the player
to snap to the grid we could just use
our jump to position movement action and
bring the player down 32 pixels some
Sokoban games do that but 32 pixels is
actually quite a lot the jump is going
to be very noticeable since my player is
a bulldozer I would like it to have a
smooth movement down the screen so
instead of using jump to position I'm
going to come up here to move fixed drag
that down I'm going to set it in the
down direction at a speed of 4 in this
case we'll have to do something else to
keep the object aligned to the grid so
we're only going to allow the player to
move if it's already in alignment and
the way we check for that is over in the
control tab up in our questions and
we're looking here in the bottom right
check grid drag that above the move
fixed and we need to set this to our
grid now my room is 640 by 480 with a
grid of 32 like I normally do so we want
the snap horizontal and snap vertical to
match that so we'll change from 16 to 32
so now we're only going to get this
movement if we're already aligned to the
grid and what that's going to do is
basically keep the object aligned to the
grid because as soon as it matches up
and it will run this check again so now
let's go ahead and duplicate this for
the other keys with this duplicate event
keyboard up duplicate event keyboard
left duplicate event keyboard right and
now we have to go in and change a few
things so starting with the keyboard
right we'll come to our change sprite
and the sub image we want will be three
because that's the
point in the sequence we also need to
change the direction from down to right
come to our up change the sprite into
sub image one and the direction to up
and then finally the left one
change this to sub image two and change
the direction to the left now there's
something else we have to account for
when we do a move fixed it's giving the
object a constant speed which means it's
just going to keep going in that
direction until we change it or stop it
so what we could do is we could come to
add event key release and go through all
of these keys
so that when we release the key we could
then set the movement to stop speed of
zero but that adds a lot of unnecessary
events there's an easier way of doing
this and that is going to be in the
keyboard event all the way down at the
bottom no key so the actions in here are
going to trigger whenever no key is
being pressed so we'll add our move
fixed in here but first we need to make
sure that we're lined up with the grid
so that we don't just stop in between
grid lines so we'll come over here to
our check grid change this to 32 by 32
come to move move fixed select the stop
speed of zero so now the player should
move and stop while aligned with the
grid let's go ahead and put in the final
bit which is the collision with the wall
so at event collision object wall and
here we're just going to come over to
move fixed tell it to stop speed of zero
we don't need to check for alignment
because the object wall is the same size
as the player and will already be
aligned the grid so go ahead and close
this and then open up our room level one
we won't bother with a background for
right now come over to our object I'm
just going to place a single wall and an
object player and we'll be able to use
the wall as a reference to show that we
are moving 32 pixels every time so close
the room and test
okay so I'll move left down right up and
you can see that I am keeping myself
aligned to the grid and when I let go it
keeps moving until it's snapped to a
grid line now let's try and move into
the block and we stop
move on and start creating a room